Title: Scientific Software Days 2013
Slug: 2013_call

## CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

## 7th ANNUAL SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE DAY

Austin TX 
December 16-17 2013

Hosted by the Texas Advanced Computing Center, the Institute for Computational Engineering and Science, and the Jackson School of Geosciences, University of Texas at Austin.

Scientists use software for their research. Some of them also develop computational software as part of their research. Scientific Software Day is an ongoing meeting of users and producers of scientific software, with presentations by scientific software tool makers and the users of their tools. The objective is to build cross-disciplinary community and skills in the diverse set of users and developers of scientific software, both academic and industrial, and to improve professional development and networking among its practitioners.
 
Most groups that use supercomputing cope with their scientific software environment in isolation, not always relying on prepackaged “canned” solutions. Many successful lines of research and development are achieved, but many times less than optimal paths are taken, simply because computing is done by people stretched between computational skills and skills in the relevant science and engineering specialties. Available tools and methods are not always known to the people who need them, and time pressure makes it hard to make the best use of the tools available. Support staff at supercomputing centers is stretched and is best at responding to specific issues rather than offering broad support.
 
We seek to build a community to address these needs. The Scientific Software Day at UT Austin  is intended to nucleate that community. If you are involved in any end use or development of scientific software, you can benefit from and contribute to this goal.
 
This is, therefore, a somewhat unusual call for presentations. Ideal presentations for Scientific Software Days are of two types: 1) presentations of generic tools that can be used in scientific software development and deployment 2) presentations of specific work, focusing on experience in developing scientific software, workflows, and tool chains. We are especially seeking presentations of the second type.
 
We would appreciate a brief introduction to your work intended for a general scientific audience, and then a focus on your workflow or any particular aspect of it that presented particular challenges or required original solutions. The target audience will be a broad selection of the scientific and engineering communities with a particular interest in supercomputing. Let’s get to know each other and learn from one another.

## ABSTRACT SUBMISSION

If you would like to participate, please submit your abstract  [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15YZ-8csoNLmG3NT_zHgmo_6vY9ngGWegCCisXTm4pcM/viewform). 


## VENUE

[ACES](http://www.aces.utexas.edu/) Room TBA  
[University of Texas at Austin](http://www.utexas.edu)  
Austin, TX  
December 16 - 17, 2013  
9 AM – 5 PM 

More on [conference logistics](http://scisoftdays.org/news/2013/09/25/scientific-software-days-2013-details/).

 
